# Adding provisional users

Create provisional users when a person has **no email address currently available**. Provisional users are created with an application ready to apply for a specific job.  

Once you've [created a job](creating-a-job.md) (ideally [duplicated](duplicate-a-job.md)), it should be straight forward to add a person who does not have an email for a job. 

<prompt>

As a business you should help people set up an email account as quickly as possible.

</prompt>

<explanation>

## Type of access
Provisional users have specific access details to log into PICMI and don't use a username and password. There are three ways to [provide access details](#provide-details-to-a-person) and all options are available to be used at any time.

* **Direct link** is active for 30 days from generation, containing a unique code. Links are regenerated on each page load and are suitable for sending via messages. They should not be saved for later use.
* **QR code** is active for 30 days from generation, which can be scanned or downloaded and printed for later use. QR codes are regenerated on each page load.
* **Access key/code/expiry** is active for a specified number of days—and can be stopped/revoked at any time. Access is via a **key** and a **code**. The key is provided by the business to identify a person. It is recommended to use an easy-to-type and personally-identifiable key, such as, a name. The code is generated by the system and can be regenerated at any time. The key can be repeated across different people because it is matched with a code. Duplicate keys are not recommended because it can make identifying users against people harder.

</explanation>

<explanation>

### General process

* have a list of the people you want to access as provisional users
* you need to decide on which [type of access](#type-of-access) you want to use
* only after user have been created, can [personal overrides](creating-individual-employment-conditions) be added to the application for individual employment conditions
* you can update the **Expiry and Access Code** at any time
* you **Stop Access** at any time
* you can view multiple people at once using <span class="mdi mdi-cog-outline"></span> **Customise Columns** in **People**

</explanation>

<instructions>

## Add a provisional user

This is the simplest way to add a single user for a person.

1. Go to **Jobs**
2. Locate the job row <span class="mdi mdi-checkbox-marked-outline"></span>
3. Click <span class="mdi mdi-dots-vertical"/> (vertical dots) to open menu
4. Select **Create with provisional user**
5. Optionally, choose your approach (from the menu top-right)
   * QR code (choose the number of users to create)
   * Access code (enter the name as a code and expires in days)
6. Click **Add to list** when you are ready
7. Click **Add user** to create the new applications with provisional users for access
8. Return to **People**, a new person will have been added and will be **Invited**

<prompt>

You can add more than one provisional user at a time using [Import](#import-multiple-provisional-users)

</prompt>

</instructions>

<instructions>

## Import multiple new provisional users

You need to have prepared a list in either **Google Sheets**, **Excel** or **CSV** and have it already in your clipboard

1. Go to **Jobs**
2. Locate the job row <span class="mdi mdi-checkbox-marked-outline"></span>
3. Click <span class="mdi mdi-dots-vertical"/> (vertical dots) to open menu
4. Select **Create with provisional user**
5. Click &vellip; (vertical dots) to open the menu
6. Locate the **Import bulk access codes** section ([download template](#download-access-codes-template))
7. Choose from the application spreadsheet
   * Google
   * Excel
   * Numbers
   * Csv
6. Update **Set default expiry in days** (optionally it different from 90 days)
6. **Paste from your clipboard** the details with Name and (optionally) an expiry (otherwise it will default to the set value)
7. Clipboard values will now be showing in a table
7. Select and edit (or delete) any rows
   * Name
   * Days from now expiry
7. Click **Add user** to create the new applications with provisional users for access
8. Return to **People**, a new person will have been added and will be **Invited**


<prompt>

You can add duplicate one provisional user (with the same name) and each will have a different access link or code—this might hard to remember who has each link!

</prompt>

</instructions>

<instructions>

## Add multiple existing provisional users

See [invite via search for existing users](inviting-for-jobs.md#search-existing-people)

<prompt>

In the **Search applications** filter type `@noreply.picmi.io`

</prompt>

</instructions>

<instructions>

## Provide details to a person

Having created a provisional user, you need to in contact with them (because they don't have an email!)

1. Go to **People**
2. Locate the person row <span class="mdi mdi-checkbox-marked-outline"></span>
3. Click <span class="mdi mdi-dots-vertical"/> (vertical dots) to open menu
4. Select **Access Code, QR Code or Direct Link** and provide the person
5. Click **Done** when finished with getting the information to the person

<explanation>

## Access Key/Code

The person will need to type these into a browser

* the link given in application
* access code
* access key

</explanation>

<explanation>

## QR Code

The person will need scan the QR code for themselves (on a phone)

* directly from your screen
* downloaded and provided to them (but remember, not by email!)

</explanation>

<explanation>

## Direct link

The person will need click on this link (because it is not typeable)

* supply the link via a message (such SMS/txt, Facebook, WhatsApp)

</explanation>


<prompt>

Do not access this account yourself without permission from the person and ensure details are provided to **ONE person only**

</prompt>

</instructions>

<instructions>

## Download access codes template

Import templates for multiple provisional users from spreadsheet application! Download a CSV file or copy to clipboard to bring into your spreadsheet application.

1. Go to **Jobs**
2. Locate the job row <span class="mdi mdi-checkbox-marked-outline"></span>
3. Click <span class="mdi mdi-dots-vertical">More</span> (vertical dots) to open menu
4. Select **Create provisional user**
5. Locate <span class="mdi mdi-dots-vertical"/> (vertical dots) More to open menu
6. Select **Download access codes template**
7. Select the format you want:
   * Download to file (saves as per your browser preference)
   * Copy to clipboard

Now open your spreadsheet application with either the file or copy and paste from clipboard and then file in the fields
ready to import

<prompt>

Important template has two fields: 
* **Name**: include both first and last as to be displayed
* **Expiry** in days, eg 30, 120 (default: 90, if nothing added)

</prompt>

</instructions>

